ChatGPT translation

Chapter 7


The one who put me to this trial was none other than my father. As if to punish me for leaving my studies, the very next day after I reached Tanguturu, he assigned me to herd cattle and plow the fields with a yoke.

"Father is like God!" the elders would say. In that way, for my godlike father to punish me felt like a divine punishment.

Herding cattle is not easy. I had to lead the herd through forests, wandering all around. In the heat and in the rain, I had to endure various hardships. Despite all this work, there was no food. I had to eat wild roots and fruits.

I spent two long years as a herder of these cattle.

Later, my elder uncle faced a challenge. He lived in Vasanthapuram and had only one son, who worked in farming. My father sent me there to take care of their herd.

Like a son who left his father and home, I too, having left my father to avoid school, had to face these hardships.

I would herd the cattle all day, and at night I would teach my younger uncle's children. Even though I was young, I participated in many intellectual activities in the village. Although I was a child, even the fathers of other children would join our group after watching our dances. We had a drama society, and I was the one who trained others in acting, which is why everyone called me “Pantulu” (Teacher).

In this way, my work became herding cattle by day and being a “teacher” at night. At that age, I had to overcome many challenges.

I had grabbed the branch and was cutting it. Just as it was about to fall, I thought I could jump to another branch. But instead, the branch slowly cracked and broke, and I fell onto another branch below, which also gave way and I crashed to the ground. I couldn't breathe for a few minutes. Watching all of this, Samuel stood by without helping. He seemed to take pleasure in my distress. It occurred to me that sometimes even friends don’t come near in moments of crisis. Eventually, when I regained consciousness and called out in pain, he came closer and took me home. When we informed my grandmother, her heart broke with sorrow. She cried out loud, scolding and causing a commotion, and gave me first aid.

Once, I was swinging on a banyan tree by the Ashwathavagu river. As I swung higher and higher, the rope snapped, and I fell from a great height, injuring my waist badly. I couldn't even speak. By God's grace, after a while, I was able to get up slowly and make my way home. When children would come home with wounds, it was common for mothers to cry and mourn, but not my grandmother. For her, her children were her very life.

After two years, I returned to Tanguturu. I felt the joy of returning home, just like Jacob in the Bible returning to his homeland after leaving his uncle's house. But as soon as I returned, I found that my brother had joined the boarding school and was studying well.

Once again, my life was devoted to agriculture. My father had no more help, so I had to assist my grandfather in farming.

Farming in those days was very difficult. From morning until noon, we had to plow the fields with the bullocks. After lunch, we would continue working the land.

Sometimes we had to plow through mud fields with water knee-deep. Then, the cattle needed to be washed, taken to the fenced area to graze, and only after they had eaten to their fill, around 9 p.m., could I bring them back home. It would often be midnight by the time I reached home. Until I returned, my Kolatam (a traditional dance form) team and theater group would be waiting for me—they depended on me as their teacher for all those activities!

Although we had hired laborers to help with the farming, I took charge of the agricultural work on behalf of my father. Even the laborers looked to me for direction.

One of the hardest jobs for a farmer in Telangana at that time was operating the "Mote" (a type of traditional water-drawing mechanism).

We had to wake up at 4 a.m. and tie the pair of bulls to the Mote, leading them back and forth to draw water. This monotonous work continued until around 11 or 12 in the afternoon. How tedious and exhausting it was! Only by operating the Mote would the fields get watered, which was essential for plowing and cultivating crops. This task required constant labor, pulling the bulls forward with ropes tied to their muzzles and guiding them. Some wells even had two, three, or four Motes. I would end up walking nearly 20 miles back and forth while operating the Mote. To pass the time and escape from the monotony of the labor, I would recite various plays, songs, and monologues. This is how I memorized verses from the Ramayana, Mahabharata, and Bhagavatam. If my mother didn't hear my singing from the field, she would worry that I might have fallen into the well with the bull, as our home was only three furlongs away from the well.

Though I was burdened with these physically demanding agricultural tasks, the performances and gatherings in the village continued as usual.
