
ChatGPT translation

Chapter 27

To one we became two, to two we became three, to three we became four.
Now, the burden of supporting the family is heavy.
I, a servant of God without salary,
As thoughts run in many directions seeking to fill hungry souls…
One day!
After finishing the gathering at Anandarao garu’s house and sending each member to their homes,
I alone stood up and set off.
To where?
That night — at midnight, 12 o’clock,
As the stairways lay quiet and the moonlight shone like jasmine blossoms,
I walk slowly with the Holy Scripture held close in my hand.

All of nature was peacefully asleep.
My feet were walking toward Warangal fort.
‘Lord! What about the burden of supporting my family?
Trusting You, daily resting at Your feet,
how will You help this devotee in the winning of souls?’ —
I was directly questioning that Most High One,
and as I searched for an answer, I was walking toward a hill.
The people of Warangal would say that many murders used to happen on that hill.
Except for thieves and killers, no one would go that way at midnight.

As I walked, whether it was the sound of my own footsteps
or someone else following me,
there was a noise behind me.

I turned around and looked.

At a distance of a hundred yards,
ten people appeared to be watching me.”

Seeing them, I lost the need to be afraid; seeing me,
it seemed they were stepping forward in fear.
I, leaving the honey-footpath, went into the hill.

Let’s see, shall we! The very next moment after I entered the hill,
those ten people scattered in ten directions and ran.

I am one person, they are ten — why did they get scared and run upon seeing me?

Were they travelers going to a village in the Warangal fort?
Not thieves — they appeared to me as rice mill workers
who worked till midnight and were going to their village.

Looking at me, they thought I was a ghost. Otherwise,
who would dare to leave the path and go into the hill at such a still hour?

I shouted and called to those laborers who were running.
My call echoed in the hills. Hearing my call, they stopped —
but the fear in them didn’t leave.

I tried to remove the fear from them. “I am also a human like you,
look at me,” I explained to them, and told them
they could go to their homes without fear.

Just like when eleven disciples were in the room,
and the room doors were shut tight, all closed,
one day suddenly the Lord appeared,
and they were afraid and thought that intruder was a ghost —
that incident came to my mind then.

“Why this disturbance in you? Why doubt in your hearts?
Look — I am not a ghost. See my hands and feet.
Touch me and see! A ghost doesn’t have flesh and bones
like I have,” He said, having conquered death,
and showed them His wounds.

Even though I told them I am a human being,
unlike Christ who showed the scriptures to His disciples,
and opened their hearts —

‘That Christ would suffer and rise from the dead on the third day,
and that in His name repentance and forgiveness of sins
would be preached starting from Jerusalem to all the four corners of the earth —
this is written in the scriptures!’ —

just as He revealed His glorious power to them,
I was not able to do so.”

Truly, that moonlit night on that hill —
had I made them sit and shared the Gospel,
those ten people might have followed Christ.
I lost such a precious moment.

Just as food satisfies when one is hungry,
as drink quenches when one is thirsty,
as a bed of stone feels sweet when sleep takes over —
in the same way, when a person is frightened and disturbed,
the only remedy for that fear is the Gospel, isn't it?
The Gospel could have taken root in their hearts at that very moment.

But in the end, I let go of that opportunity.
Though the thought of soul-winning was in my mind,
at that moment I failed to put thought into action —
and because of that, even now, I feel deep regret.

It was only three days after they had gone
that I came to understand this hard truth:
No matter what hardship or trial,
one must never forget to glorify the name of that Lord,
the ocean of grace.

After they had left, I alone, on that same hill,
spent “three days and three nights”
in singing praises to the Lord, in prayer to Him.

Those prayers gave instant fruit,
they strengthened me spiritually,
they gave me immense faith.
In the service life that followed,
those solitary fasting prayers on that hill during the night
poured out great growth and blessings.

For anyone’s spiritual growth,
prayer is the most powerful weapon.
