

ChatGPT translation

Chapter 31 estimated

Abraham was blessed because he made intercessory prayers — for Abimelech, for Ishmael, for the salvation of Sodom, and for the deliverance of Lot.

Though Job was overwhelmed and afflicted with unbearable sufferings, yet he made intercessory prayers for his three friends. Though they had greatly troubled him, he did not become envious.

In the same way, Moses made intercessory prayers to God for the forgiveness and help of the people, and prayed for the healing of his sister Miriam.

Samuel the prophet prayed for Saul and for the people of Israel.

David, Elijah, Elisha, Ezra, Nehemiah, and other Old Testament saints, as well as Paul, John, Epaphras, and other New Testament saints, prayed many times for others.
For this, our Savior Himself is the greatest example to us.

Whether we like it or not, we are fully bound (one hundred percent obliged) to make intercessory prayers for others.

For whom should we make intercessory prayers:

1. For all men. (1 Timothy 2:1; Ephesians 6:18)

2. For kings. (1 Timothy 2:2; Ezra 6:10)

3. For fellow believers. (James 5:16)

4. For God’s servants. (Romans 15:30; 2 Corinthians 1:11)

5. For enemies. (Matthew 5:44)

6. For the salvation of the Jews. (Genesis 12:3)

7. For the sick. (Matthew 25:34; James 5:14)

It was because Abraham Samuel interceded in that manner that I too believed that my wife Leela would have a safe delivery and give birth to a healthy baby girl.

Thus, our family was growing.
To this growing family, two young men joined us who were staying with us: Brother M. John, and Mr. P. E. Varghese, who was sent to us from Kerala.

This Varghese had been sent to learn the Telugu language.
The interesting thing is, while I was teaching him Telugu, I learned the Malayalam language from him.

By learning in this way, I gained in my life a friend of great value.

In those days, almost all the chief Pentecostal pastors of Andhra Pradesh were Malayalees.
Because I had learned that language, I had the privilege of translating the sermons of preachers who came from Kerala into Telugu.

In this way, the holy Lord gave me the opportunity to serve Him more brightly and to glorify His holy name.
The Lord who used this humble servant of His in such a manner is worthy of praise.

As my ministry was increasing day by day, in December 1946, I held great meetings in Malakapalli, in Kovvur taluk of West Godavari district, and began the works of ministry.
That was the beginning — the Lord’s work in Malakapalli.
It must be said that in these ministry activities, the residents of Malakapalli were greatly moved.
