
ChatGPT translation

Chapter 33

After I reached Rajahmundry from Kumbanadu in Kerala,
I became angry when I saw an article written by Mr. Fox in the magazine Christian Hope (“క్రైస్తవ నిరీక్షణ”),
written in a way that insulted womanhood itself.

In Kumbanadu, while thousands upon thousands of women were immersed in the Pentecostal flow of the Holy Spirit,
Mr. Fox raised the argument that women should not pray in the congregation.
To respond to that objection,
I wrote an article in the March 1947 issue of Suvārta (Prakāshini), presenting the counterargument.

Based on 1 Corinthians 11:5,
I clarified that women who are cleansed by the blood of Christ
may pray and prophesy with a veil on their heads.
But Mr. Fox twisted it, arguing that this should be done only at home.
Yet in that same chapter, verses 16–20,
Paul clearly writes that such things should be done in the congregation.

There are many examples in the Holy Scripture showing that women participated in prayer.

1. “All these (the apostles), together with certain women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and His brothers, continued with one accord in prayer”
(Acts 1:14).

2. Hannah prayed in the temple of God (1 Samuel 1:18).

3. In the Old Testament, we see that women prophesied.
Moses and Aaron’s sister Miriam is called a prophetess (Exodus 15:20).

4. Deborah served as both prophetess and judge (Judges 4:4).
The prophetess Huldah delivered the message of God to the Israelites (2 Kings 22:14).

5. Through the prophet Joel, God declared:
“I will pour out My Spirit upon all flesh;
your sons and daughters shall prophesy...
In those days I will pour out My Spirit upon servants and handmaids” (Joel 2:28).
The same prophecy was quoted by Peter on the day of Pentecost.

6. In the time of Christ, there was a prophetess named Anna (Luke 2:36).

7. The four daughters of Philip also prophesied (Acts 21:9).

8. Was it not a woman who first gave testimony to the apostles concerning the resurrection of Christ?

9. Did not some people of the city of Sychar believe,
after hearing the testimony of the Samaritan woman who was saved? (John 4:39).

Although the Bible clearly affirms that there are no prohibitions
for women to participate in prayer and spiritual duties,
Mr. Fox, by ignoring these truths, has insulted womanhood itself.

If someone, like Mr. Fox, harbors such a wrong understanding toward women,
it would be better for him to remove that misconception.
