
Grok.com translation

Chapter 47

One can say that the year 1951 began with the Rajahmundry Convention.
This convention took place on January 2-4. In this, Pastor Philipp Abraham, T.K. Thomas, P.L. Paranjyoti, Apostle P.M. Samuel, and I preached.
With each sermon, the attendance of believers began to increase. When Philipp Abraham preached on “Nineveh,” there were 150 people. When Pastor T.K. Thomas preached, 200 people attended. For Apostle P.M. Samuel’s sermon, 500 people attended.
His sermon was like thunder; the idolaters would become like lion cubs in his presence.
In front of him, all of us were merely kid goats.
The convention proceeded very powerfully. The influence of the Holy Spirit’s inspiration was visible in all the listeners. For such a grand meeting, the expense was Rs. 123-00— isn’t that surprising! Out of this, Rs. 98-15-0 came as donations.
To those who say that money flows to Christian missionaries from somewhere or other, these accounts can give an answer.
In this same year, another new book was published in my literary life. Its name is “Jeeva Margamu” (The Way of Life).
The world-saving Lord Christ saved me, who was on the path of death, from the beginning. While thinking how to repay that great debt to the Spirit, I kept pondering.
To the crores and crores of people who are perishing without knowing the Way of Life, I am a debtor. Not only I—all the believers who have been saved and obtained life are debtors.
If we fail to repay this debt, there is great accountability ahead. “You wicked and lazy servant…,” He rebuked and cast him into the outer darkness (Matt 25:27-30).
This Scripture verse hurried me. Thinking that I must teach the Way of Life that the Lord Christ showed to the perishing crores of people, I wrote this “Jeeva Margamu.”
While Hindu Puranas divide people into 3 classes, the Holy Scripture has divided them into 7 classes.
Who are they!

The dead, 2. Those who are sleeping, 3. Those who are awake, 4. Those who are awake yet remain among the dead, 5. Those who are shining, 6. The ignorant, 7. The wise.

In these seven groups, to which group do we belong? Which group is the best to belong to?—this matter I explained in this book, and I made it crystal clear what Way of Life we must walk in order to step from death into life, by belonging to which group.
The number of people walking that Way of Life is increasing.
Not only in Rajahmundry town—in 1946, the service that began in the Malakapalli Convention with the cooperation of Marthamma and Mariamma has grown to 80 believers. Even though I myself am seeing it, the stage has been reached where a separate Pastor should be appointed there specially.
Through the recommendation of Pastor T.K. Thomas, I appointed G. Isaac Nathan, who came as a student of Kakinada Bible School.
Similarly, the service in Pasivedala has also expanded. Here, the temple consecration itself took place in 1950. Believers have increased, and the gospel service is spreading like foot-rubbing (i.e., tirelessly on foot) to many more areas.
All this is nothing but the fruit of the Lord’s blessing—may this glory go to the Lord alone!
While this was so, on Saturday, October 25, 1952, at 3:20 in the early morning, James (Jimmy) was born.
Praise be to God!
